
## Past Student projects:
#### * wx-sy	First Name	Last Name	Institute	Lab	Project Title	Team?	Project Short Description	Project Long Description
#### * Can YouTube comments be utilized to predict our future President?		collect youtube comments using web scraping.	uses text mining or web scraping to collect and sort data from the candidates online videos.  I will use these comments to calculate which candidate has the majority support
#### * Effects of tissue-specific miRNA differential expression 		Using GEO dataset of miRNA array of RBM3 KO mice	RBM3 regulates miRNA expression by reducing DICER processing, which changes expression levels of various miRNA. RBM3 is normally activated during periods of hypothermia (related to hibernation). KO mice have severe hippocampal degeneration, but are otherwise relatively normal. This project will use local NISC cluster to 1) run differential expression 2) consider tissue-specific miRNA expression using online databases 3) identify pathways affected in hippocampus unaffected in other regions. 
#### * Predicting if breast tumor is malignant or benign;		Dataset at https://www.kaggle.com/uciml/breast-cancer-wisconsin-data will be used to generate a model to predict the malignancy of breast tumor biopsies	The Breast Cancer Wisconsin dataset will be explored, cleaned up, and modeled (using Python numpy and pandas libraries and random forest estimator). Each row in the dataset represents a different sample, with columns indicating diagnosis (malignant or benign), as well as numerical features of the nuclei from the tissue samples (radius, concavity, perimeter, texture, symmetry). Features have been computed from digitized images of breast mass biopsies. The dataset will be divided up at random so as to use 75% of data for prediction and 25% of data for validation of diagnosis.
#### * Predicting exploratory choice in decision task		Use machine learning algorithms to create model that fits how and when humans make exploratory choices	
#### * How does protein function emerge in a related family of proteins?		Use combination of Python and MySql (SQLite?) to explore this question: does novel protein function emerge disproportionately from a given secondary structure? 	Will examine solved crystal structures of multiple protein families. Will scrape structure data from RCSB and sort aa by secondary structure and active site/ligand binding site. I'll ask whether structurally related proteins tend to have mutations (near the ligand binding pocket) in defined secondary structures (a-helix, b-sheet) or irregular structures (loops).
#### * Compact Computing Cluster Useful for Big data Education (C3UBE)		Build an economical and compact, yet scalable, cluster suitable as a testbed and educational tool for distributed computing using Hadoop and/or OpenStack	While it is possible to gain some experience with Hadoop, OpenStack, and other big data tools using single-node clusters and/or virtualization, this is generally not how actual compute jobs would be performed. Therefore, single-node/virtualized clusters have some significant limitations when optimizing code or when trying to gain experience with system administration tasks necessary to implement a Hadoop cluster. In many cases, an individual may not have ready access to servers and hardware needed to establish a physical cluster capable of running Hadoop/MapReduce via their workplace, or they may wish to first explore and develop big data solutions prior to investing in expensive hardware. This project aims to create a reasonably inexpensive, compact, and self-contained solution that can be expanded/augmented (i.e. upgrading the number of nodes, memory, storage, etc) to suit most needs in an initial foray into big data tools and analysis. A number of projects on the web have documented the construction of low-cost clusters using system on a chip (SoC) computers like Raspberry Pi and Pine64. These solutions, while extremely low cost, have very limited per-node memory (max of 2 Gb on Pine64) that is not upgradable and utilize ARM-based processors that may not support all components necessary to effectively implement all Hadoop and/or OpenStack features without intensive work (e.g. recompiling the Linux kernel). On the other hand, there are projects that have utilized networks of small self-contained computers (e.g. Intel’s NUC), but this solution is not overly compact, especially if a large enough number of nodes are incorporated to do meaningful work. For instance, each of these computers requires its own power supply, case, and external networking making it energy inefficient and cumbersome. This project will implement a 5-6 node cluster using min-ITX boards with Intel SoC Celeron processors running Ubuntu Linux. The system will be encapsulated within a custom designed housing with capacity for 10 such nodes, an ATX power supply, storage media, and all networking. I will attempt to set up the cluster with OpenStack and Hadoop installed as a compute module. Alternatively, the cluster will be set up directly with Hadoop. If I have time before the end of the semester after constructing and configuring the hardware, I will begin to use this system to create an automated sleep staging program for human polysomnography data sets. There are many online data sets that include EEG, EOG, and EMG voltage signals as well as human-derived classification. These can be partitioned for use in training and validation of the classifier.
#### * Modeling 3D structure of nucleoid in E. coli; use the distance data gained through high resolution fluorescence microscopy to build a 3-D model of nucleoid structure in E. coli	In the initial step, three fixed foci are constructed in E. coli chromosome and the distances between foci are measured in wildtype and mutants to confirm the stability of chromosome structure in stationary phase cells by statistic analysis. Next step is introducing a mobile focus in chromosome per time  and measuring the distances between mobile focus and fixed foci. With the obtained distances of mobile to fixed foci, it is possible to model a 3D structure of nucleoid by tracking the moving of that focus along the chromosome.
#### * Facial Keypoints Recognition;	Dataset at: https://www.kaggle.com/c/facial-keypoints-detection/rules;	Use the dataset provided to begin to develop an algorithm for detection of key facial landmarks that are useful in forensic, biometric and clinical research. Plan to use R for analysis.
#### * Analysis of NGS data and genome mapping;		Analyzing the sequencing data (NGS) from ChIP seq experiments and map the reads to the mouse genome. This will lead to graphical depiction of the reads correlating to the genomic coordinates	I perform ChIP seq experiments from mice tissues in our lab. The results of these experiments are Next Generation Sequencing Data of specific mouse genome fragments. To analyze and visualize these sequencing results we have a bioinformatician in our lab, who maintains the analysis. My project is to first look at the analysis and its code and understand the procedure. In a second step I will see, if any possibilities for optimization arise, or if there is the possibility to implement tools from our course. An example could be to reduce the time of analysis by map reduce techniques.
#### * Analysis of HSY cells responds to photolysis of caged IP3		Analyzing a set of HSY cell data that shows traces of calcium signaling	
#### * Analyze miRNA target prediction in miRNA screening;	Use publish miRNA target prediction databases to identify genes involved in a specific phenotype	The project will utilize public miRNA-mRNA interaction databases (e.g. TargetScan, miRanda) to identify genes involved in determining healthy phenotype of retinal pigment epithelial cells, and find solutions to find consensus among the databases and optimize this process
